---
layout: post
title: NDS4iOS Plays DS Games on iOS Without Jailbreaking
original: http://www.technorms.com/40228/play-nintendo-ds-games-on-ios
image: nds4ios-title.gif
org: TechNorms
keywords: nds4ios, ds games on iphone, iphone emulator, ds emulator no jailbreak, cydia
categories: jailbreak, iphone, ipad, apple, gaming, tech, fph, review
---

iOS users can now play Nintendo DS games on their iPhone and iPad, no jailbreak necessary. There is now a website that allows iOS users to download NDS4iOS, free of charge.

<!--break-->

Users report performance to be mediocre at best. The emulators are in the early stages of development and still need more work to run quickly.

“It runs like absolute poop (not that I expected much else,” wrote one tester. “I think it is more of a proof of concept.”

The app looks reputable, as it comes from developer team InfiniDev. It’s hosted on the website of someone named Karen. Karen contributes to her own Cydia repo and works for InfiniDev. She also maintains PPSSPP, so emulation is something she’s interested in.

## Rating and Response

Overall, I’d rate this as a reputable download. It’s from someone in the scene, a person who is more interested in picking apart iOS than stealing your data. Though I haven’t tested it myself, so take this with a grain of salt.

Nds4ios can be played in portrait, which is better for screen layout.

This is also the only way that you will be able to play classic Nintendo games on iOS, as Nintendo has stated it has no interest in bringing its titles to mobile systems. This is an understandable decision, as Nintendo makes far more money from selling mobile consoles. It wants you to get a 3DS to play Pokemon, not an iPod Touch.

NDS4iOS is a rarity, as Apple does not allow emulators on its store. Whatever hackaround the developers used is the only way you can play emulators on iOS.

Apple keeps iOS locked down tight. If you want an app, you go through the App Store. If you go through the App Store, you’re seeing exclusively Apple-approved apps. They don’t let you get to any apps they haven’t approved. This is great for providing a streamlined experience and avoids the shenanigans of hunting down good programs like you had to on Windows.

### How It Works

The website uses hijacked enterprise certificates to bypass iOS’s safeguards. Most companies use these to distribute apps internally at a company. Apple has already revoked the site’s certificates, but the site has bypassed this. Certificates expire by a certain date. Manually change an iPhone’s date, though, and the old certificate still works.

If you do get the emulator, be sure to check out TechNorm’s list of the best games to play on an emulator. All-touch controls are not ideal, especially when compared to a 3DS, but you can easily play turn-based games or RPGs.

I’d definitely recommend playing Pokemon. It’s long, addictive, and easy to use on an emulator. Just be sure to pick the water starter. That one’s always the best.

### Final Thoughts

Gaming on Apple devices has been slowly improving, as Apple added official support for gamepads with iOS 7. Few apps have adopted the new devices, but the opportunity is there.

Android users interested in a similar experience of playing DS games on their phones should check out DraStic, the best DS emulator for Google’s platform. It takes the awkward challenge of putting two screens onto one and makes it into a workable experience.