---
layout: post
title: The Apps I Keep
original: http://www.technorms.com/39070/must-have-android-apps-from-a-tech-writers-perspective
image: apps1.jpg
org: TechNorms
keywords: the apps i keep, android, tech journalist perspective, best ones after review
categories: apple, android, tech, technorms, review
---

I use a lot of apps as a tech writer. Seriously, a lot. It takes minutes for me to scroll through the “My Apps” page on Google Play. That’s not even touching my collection on iOS.

<!--break-->

However, only a few apps are good enough for me to actually keep around. Most of them are good for a week or two after the review at most. Then I uninstall them. Few survive and become long-term fixtures on my phone or tablet. Looking over the list, the common trend seems to be toward well-designed, feature rich apps. Interface matters. If I’m going to use something every day, it should look beautiful.

So for what it’s worth, here are a few of the apps which this tech journalist liked enough to actually keep. No disrespect to other apps I’ve reviewed over time. It’s not you, it’s more that certain apps tend to last longer than others. Like these.

## Must Have Apps for Android

### Swype

This is how we were meant to type. Hunting and pecking works, but it’s not as smooth or intuitive as dragging your finger between letters. Swipe-typing seems silly until you try it. Then it’s a must-have.

I like Swype’s implementation of swipe-typing best because of its interface and accuracy. Swype guesses most of my input. When it doesn’t, the right answer is usually there in the suggested bar.

I’ve tried Swiftkey and Google’s keyboard. They’re great pieces of software in their own right, but they don’t feel as polished as Swype.

### Pulse

Anyone can do an RSS reader. It takes talent to do an RSS reader like Pulse. After several redesigns, the app has maintained its overall look and excellent interface.

The typeface, thumbnail items, scrollable columns, and cloud-based subscriptions make this my favorite RSS reader for the post-Google Reader world.

### reddit sync

reddit sync is another app that stands above its competition by offering good content within a beautiful design. Its cards-based Holo UI looks stunning.

Now that the new interface has left beta, there’s no excuse for not using reddit sync. It is hands-down the best-looking client. And it performs well. Pay the money for reddit sync pro – it’s worth it.

### Business Calendar Pro

I paid for the pro version of Business Calendar after using its free version for a couple of months. It’s totally worth it.

Business Calendar is miles ahead of the basic Google Calendar app. Viewing events inside the app, adding events, and widget layouts feel streamlined and practical.

The app’s developers have also redesigned the user interface since the we talked about it the last time, adding a Holo theme and Google’s design elements. The result is gorgeous and compulsively usable.

### ES File Explorer

ES File Explorer is a funny app. It’s not the best-designed file manager on Android. It suffers from major feature bloat and has way too much useless crap.

And yet I always end up installing it. ES File Explorer can zip and unzip files, share them, and has a built-in text editor. Simple stuff, but essential.

### Tasker

Tasker may be my favorite Android app ever. It does everything. Whenever I’m trying to hack together custom ringtone notifications or homemade DashClock notifications, I use Tasker.

It accepts data from almost anything and lets you attach actions to those inputs. The possibilities are endless when you really get how to use it.

Tasker is amazing for different reasons than other apps on this list. It’s complex, unintuitive, and has a Holo-but-still-unfinished UI that won’t win any awards.

But when you look at the features, Tasker sells itself. There’s nothing like this app anywhere, on any platform.

### Titanium Backup

Titanium Backup is a lifesaver when you’re jumping between ROMs and need to restore your apps without re-downloading 100 MB of data from Google Play.

The pro key makes the app worthwhile with batch actions. You can back up all your apps en-masse, flash a new ROM, then restore them all with a single tap. It’s so simple.

I bit the bullet and paid for Titanium Backup years ago, and it’s earned its money many times over.

### DynamicNotifications

This is the perfect lock screen for me. It’s simple and minimalist, offering a shortcut to unlock the phone and one to jump to the camera.

However, when you get a notification, you can swipe the other way to jump straight to that app. It makes texting a breeze.

The ability to turn on my phone’s screen, hold down the unlock ring and preview the message’s contents alone makes this app worth downloading.

Motorola nailed it when they created Active Notifications, the inspiration for this app. DynamicNotifications is fast, simple, and effective. Can’t argue with that.

### Nova Launcher

You can’t always count on a phone’s stock launcher. Sometimes the manufacturer (cough Samsung) will put something obtuse and unintuitive on it.

That’s why you get Nova. After I picked up the full version for $.10 in a Play Store sale, I learned to love Nova. A stock-like launcher with superb performance and all the customization options I could ever want? Yes, please.

Nova can do all the things you wish your stock launcher could. It’s the best home screen replacement I’ve found for its overall performance, flexibility, and deep customization.

### Final Thoughts

It’s funny how many apps didn’t make the list. Almost everything gets uninstalled after long enough. Games, texting apps, lock screens, launchers… it all goes away. Kind of sad, when you think about it.

What are some of your must-have apps?