---
layout: post
title: HTC One M8 2014- Specs and Price Announced
original: http://www.technorms.com/39837/htc-one-m8-2014-specs-and-pricing
image: htc-one-title.jpg
org: TechNorms
keywords: htc one m8, preview, specs, price, release date, announcement
categories: htc, phones, android, tech, technorms, review
---

The most-leaked product in history since the Nexus 5 is finally official. HTC unveiled its latest and greatest flagship phone today in New York. The newest HTC One looks a lot like the old One, with a few key differences hidden under the hood.

<!--break-->

Make no mistake. There’s a lot riding on this phone. HTC needs to keep up with Samsung and Apple. The latter has locked up the high-end of the market, and the former has overwhelmed every other part with an avalanche of phones. There’s little room for HTC in there.

Can the 2014 One change that? Is this the next must-have phone? Read on to find out.

## The New HTC One M8

The 2014 edition of HTC’s flagship looks a lot like the 2013 version. It uses the same shape and overall aesthetic. Put the two side by side and you can see the similarities.

HTC decided they had a good thing going and decided to stick with it. Why not? Last year’s One was one of the best-designed phones on the market. It was gorgeous. No need to ruin that this year.

Look closer, though, and the small differences add up. The M8 bumps the screen size from 4.7 inches to 5. Resolution stays at 1920 x 1080.

HTC thankfully abandoned its awkward dual-hardware button setup and moved to on-screen buttons like every other manufacturer. It looks better.

Displayed on that screen is the latest and greatest software from the Taiwanese manufacturer. The 2014 One runs KitKat underneath Sense 6.0, which HTC calls “Sixth Sense” because god forbid you release a feature without a dumb marketing name.

Speaking of speakers, they’re back. HTC gave the One even more accurate and loud front-facing speakers. They make showing YouTube videos to friends even easier.

Underneath everything is a killer set of specs. The One is powered by a 2.3GHz quad-core Snapdragon 801 chip and 2GB of RAM. That’s even faster than the Nexus 5, which is a beast.

The only downside is the odd camera setup. HTC kept the same 4-megapixel “UltraPixel” rear-facing shooter from last year. It produces decent, if inconsistent images. Early reviews mark it as the weakest part of the phone.

The company did upgrade the front-facing camera, giving it 5 megapixels. Yes, that’s more than the rear camera. No, it doesn’t make any sense, even if you read it six times.

The rear camera tries to compensate by throwing in a secondary sensor and some gimmicky features. You can redo the focus on shots after the fact, as well as subject them to a weird 3D tilty effect. Don’t bother.

Lastly, HTC heavily skinned up Sense 6 by adding custom lock screen gestures. Double-tap the screen to turn it on. From there, you can swipe in different directions to launch the camera or BlinkFeed.

If any of this sounds interesting, go check it out. Pre-orders start today, and certain carriers are selling them right now.

### Case Closed

For the case types, HTC is selling first-party dot-matrix cases. They cover the screen in a soft plastic mesh and network of dots.

The cool part is that gestures like double-tap to wake still work. The phone will show you the time and weather through the case without waking up the CPU. Nice touch.

And of course, magnets in the case turn the screen on and off when you flip it open and shut.

### HTC One M8 Specs List

* 2.3GHz quad-core Snapdragon 801
* Android 4.4 with Sense 6.0
* 4-megapixel “UltraPixel” camera
* 5-megapixel front-facing camera
* 2600mAh battery, which HTC pegs as 40% improved over the 2013 One
* 16/32GB of storage, plus a microSD slot for cards up to 128GB
* Bluetooth 4.0, NFC, and Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac
* Infrared remote control
* “BoomSound” front-facing speakers

### Conclusion

The HTC One represents a paradox. On one hand, this and last year’s model are not bad phones. More the opposite. They’re excellent examples of design.

It’s just that they don’t have that one feature that turns out the masses and gets them into the store. Apple has it by virtue of being Apple. Samsung kind of has it through its ubiquity. HTC doesn’t have it yet.

A friend once joked that he’d only ever seen tech journalists with HTC Ones. That is uncomfortably true. HTC has some work to do if they want to sell this phone to everyone.