---
layout: post
title: Camel in Auburn- Residents keep exotic animals for zoo
original: http://www.theplainsman.com/article/2014/09/camel-in-auburn-residents-keep-exotic-animals-for-zoo
image: 12206_5HNP_camelp.jpg
org: The Plainsman
keywords: camel in auburn, exotic pets, patrick starr, zoo
categories: animals, auburn, plainsman, features
---

Travis may be the most unusual resident of Auburn. Standing 6-foot-6, he towers over most visitors.

<!--break-->

Travis is a 6-year-old dromedary camel. His long, tan neck holds his head even higher than his hump.

Travis is the tallest member of Farmer Brown's Party Animals, a petting zoo based out of the Auburn area.

Travis lives on Pat Starr Sr.'s farm.

Pat Sr. said the farm has so many animals, he does not know exactly how many he owns.

Pat Sr. owns a camel, a zebra, a kangaroo, fainting goats, alpacas, bulls, South American coatis, a South Asian zebu, a bull, a donkey and 15-20 horses.

"My son wanted to get some stuff you just don't normally find around here," Pat Sr. said. "He just started getting one or two there. Rather than have birthday parties or something [which] people are paying to do at places up town, skating centers and places like that, I figured we just might be able to host a party out here, let people come out and see some stuff they've never seen before."

Patrick Starr Jr., senior at Lee-Scott Academy, has collected exotic animals for five years.

"I've hung around animals all my life," Patrick Jr. said. "I like showing animals to people, so I started back in 2009 and I bought my first llama. I bought three llamas, and it's just gone from there."

Patrick Jr. said he adds animals to his collection based on how exotic they are and how easy they are to care for.

"I don't like showing them off as much, but I like to watch the animals and educate people about them," Patrick Jr. said.

Patrick Jr. shows off his animals at birthday parties and church picnics.

Pat Sr. said churches have even used Travis for Nativity scenes.

The Starrs said they favor certain animals for showing to children. Travis is a favorite because he is unusual and even-tempered.

"He's really very docile compared to a horse," said Stephanie Johndrow, friend of the Starrs. "At least, this one is. He doesn't spook."

Johndrow said Travis's calm nature helps when he is around children.

"The little-bitty kids come up and feed him," Johndrow said. "He's just as gentle out of their little hands. He doesn't bite them, and they don't scare him."

Pat Sr. said he prefers to have visitors feed alpacas, llamas and camels. Their teeth are structured so that anyone feeding the animals is less likely to be bitten.

Pat Sr. said he supports Patrick Jr.'s interest in animals, because it gives his son something to do that won't cause any trouble.

"I know what he's doing on the weekends," Pat Sr. said. "This is something good."

Patrick Jr. said he wants to follow his passion for animals by becoming a veterinarian.

Patrick Jr. also said he hopes to own an elephant and open a safari park.

Pat Sr. said he supports his son's efforts, even though opening a safari park could take 30 years.

"You gotta dream," Pat Sr. said.