---
layout: post
title: Woman denies involving 2-year-old in sex
original: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/news/local/crime/article34894419.html
image: crisp.JPG
org: Columbus Ledger-Enquirer
keywords: columbus ga, ledger enquirer, woman denies, 2-year-old sex, crime, not guilty, child molestation, shannon crisp
categories: crime, briefs, ledger
---

Shannon Crisp, 23, pleaded not guilty Friday morning in Recorder's Court to charges of child molestation. She also pleaded guilty to sexual exploitation of children and enticing a child for an indecent purposes.

<!--break-->

Crisp was arrested after the Sex Crimes division investigated a case of child molestation involving an adult male and female juvenile, according to testimony from Cpl. Brittney Hayes.

Hayes said police seized a computer and other electronics and forwarded them to the Georgia Bureau of Investigations on March 18, 2014.

When the GBI returned them in July 2015, Hayes said they found a video of a woman, later identified as Crisp, performing a sexual act on a man while an 18-24-month-old girl was on the bed as well.

Warrants were issued for Crisp on Wednesday and she was arrested Thursday at 2 p.m., according to court testimony.

Hayes said although Crisp initially denied everything, she later admitted that she and her child were in the video and the child was present during the act.

"I did not know it was on video, and the child wasn't involved," Crisp told the court.

Hayes said the video shows Crisp taking her child's hand and trying to make her participate in the sexual act.

"I'm trying to move her hand and get her not to do that," Crisp responded.

Judge Michael Cielinski set her bonds at $25,000 apiece for the exploitation and enticing charges and $50,000 for the charge of molestation. He bound the case over to Superior Court.