---
layout: post
title: Columbus police officer connects with community
original: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/news/local/article38419617.html
image: spencer.jpg
org: Columbus Ledger-Enquirer
keywords: columbus ga police, connects with community, outreach policing, stickers
categories: police, humaninterest, ledger, viral
---

Cpl. Travis Spencer of the Columbus Police Department was spotted doing some good today.

<!--break-->

Missy Behar said she posted this photo of Spencer handing out badge-shaped stickers to several children to Facebook. Spencer didn't know about the picture until someone tagged him in it later in the day. It was taken between 12 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. Friday afternoon at Jim Bob's Chicken Fingers.

Spencer said the boy pictured, whose name he does not know, waved to him several times as he was eating. Spencer said he then went out to his vehicle and got a roll of stickers.

The corporal, who is six-foot-three, said he made sure to crouch down to the 3-4-year-old's level before talking to the excited child.

"I love it," Spencer said. "If a kid says hello and is excited to see you, you have to talk to them."

Spencer is a part of the Crime Prevention Unit, a group within CPD that does outreach events at churches and schools.

"We try to engage children, make sure they're not afraid of us," Spencer said. "Kinda breaks down barriers between us and the community."

Behar said she took  wanted to document Spencer's actions for everyone.

"I thought, 'Well, that's so sweet,'" Behar said. "He just seemed so nice."

Mary Katherine Holton, who was also at the restaurant, said she thought it was sweet as well for Spencer to talk to everyone like that during his lunch.

"I just hope more people get to see police officers do the right thing," Holton said.