---
layout: post
title: Man convicted of murdering 8-month-old son
original: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/news/local/article29490226.html
image: infantryConvict.jpg
org: Columbus Ledger-Enquirer
keywords: columbus ga, ledger enquirer, infantryman, convicted, murdering 8 month old son, court, guilty verdict
categories: crime, briefs, ledger
---

The jury returned with a guilty verdict in the case of Shane Eric Hinkson just before noon Friday.

<!--break-->

Hinkson was found not guilty on one count of malice murder, but guilty on a lesser included charge of involuntary manslaughter, two counts of felony murder, one count of aggravated assault and one count of first-degree cruelty to children.

The jury returned with a unanimous verdict in Hinkson’s case around 10:20 a.m. When Judge Frank Jordan silently read it, he called the counsel for both sides to his bench for a conference.

The court recessed until 11 a.m., when the judge conferred with the lawyers again. The court then recessed until 11:40 a.m., when the jury returned.

The defense asked Jordan for time to prepare before sentencing. Hinkson’s sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 20.

The jury sided with the prosecution’s version of events, which said that Hinkson deliberately threw the child down in a fit of anger. They declined to convict Hinkson on malice murder, but did declare him guilty of felony murder for doing so and not calling 911 as soon as he discovered the baby was hurt.

Prosecutor William Hocutt IV told jurors Hinkson had told police in a recorded interview that he was having trouble holding his temper after service in Iraq.

“I got angry,” Hinkson said in the interview. “Sometimes I can’t control myself.”

Three physicians testified in the case and all said the baby died from abusive head trauma from being violently shaken or slammed down on a soft surface. The infant’s brain was smashed against the inside of his skull, leaving internal bleeding and swelling.

The prosecution also cited testimony from the baby’s mother, Jennifer Cabanayan, who said Hinkson called her and said “something bad had happened.”

After the verdict was read, Hinkson hugged his lawyers and left the courtroom.