---
layout: post
title: America's Got Talent Smiths Station singer cut from show
original: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/news/local/article30067677.html
image: agt.png
org: Columbus Ledger-Enquirer
keywords: america's got talent, smiths station, brittney allen, singer, cut from show, alex clare, producers
categories: pageants, human-interest, viral, features, ledger
---

A 24-year-old Smiths Station, Ala., native was eliminated Tuesday night on "America's Got Talent" after the judges said she gave a disappointing performance.

<!--break-->

Brittney Allen did not pass to the second round following a rendition of "Too Close" by Alex Clare.

The judges, which included Mel B, Heidi Klum, Howie Mandel and Howard Stern, unanimously disapproved of her song choice and backup track, saying it did not fit her voice. They said they would have preferred a ballad instead of something as electronic as "Too Close."

Allen told the Ledger-Enquirer the song was not her first choice and was picked for her by the producers of "America's Got Talent."

She said she emailed them a list of five songs (all ballads) and was instead told to perform the Alex Clare song.

"I do slow, pretty stuff," Allen said. "They put a weird dubstep track. That's not who I am, though. I did what I could with what I had."

Allen said she wishes she could have chosen a different song, but she understands reality TV isn't always what it seems.

She also said she did not realize she would be performing in front of an 800-person audience and Marlon Wayans, a celebrity guest judge.

The singer, who suffers from persistent stage fright, felt more nervous singing without a guitar as well.

"It wasn't my best," Allen said. "I learned from it."

She said she plans to keep focusing on music between her jobs at Kohl's and LongHorn Steakhouse.

"I don't even dwell on it that I didn't make it," Allen said. "I have so many people supporting me."